Slide 1: Introduction Title: Enhancing Recovery through Predictive Analytics Content: Monitoring and supporting recovery from injuries. Importance of active support in the recovery process, intervention when things are off track. Specialist Direct and Personify provide this functionality through manual case worker review of data leading to actions such as making a phone call to the patient.
Slide 2: Problem Statement Title: Challenges in Current Recovery Management Content: Specialist Direct and Personify raise the bar in effective management of sports injury recoveries, but without automation through machine learning, the solution cannot scale. Manual workflow/pathway platforms rely on people reviewing data and detecting that either recovery has gone off track and/or patients are not providing sufficient feedback about their recovery.
Slide 3: Solution Overview Title: Introducing the Predictive Analytics Model Content: Overview of the machine learning model. Key components: Recovery progress prediction and survey adherence monitoring.
Slide 4: Model Input Title: Data for Informed Predictions Content: Data used: Perceived pain, mood, and survey frequency. Importance of subjective data in understanding recovery dynamics, such as changes in perceptions of pain and mood over time.
Slide 5: Model Output Title: Empowering Case Workers with Actionable Insights Content: Output details: Independent alerts for unsatisfactory recovery progress and for insufficient survey adherence. Model inferences can be integrated into pathway platforms such as Specialist Direct or Personify for follow up action.
Slide 6: Demo Title: Keeping the Guardrails on for Faster Recovery Content: Figma based demo of website functionality - if making finals convert Figma into demonstration site with actual model outputs displayed.
Slide 7: Real-world Impact Title: Improving Recovery Timelines and Confidence Content: Victorian Amateur Football Association (VAFA) 2023 trial of over 400 participants yielding data for the Hackathon. Players were highly satisfied with the systematic delivery of care through Specialist Direct as a manual platform. The ML model will allow Specialist Direct to scale. VAFA intend a much larger pilot in 2024.
Slide 8: Future Directions Title: Continuous Improvement and Expansion Content: This ML approach can be applied into in primary health care ,home aged care, disability care, low resource health care delivery. Expanding models across these modes of care and with monitoring devices provides the promise of more effective, lower cost health care making better use of available health professionals. The results of this hackathon are intended to be used to support major AI research in public health delivery on Groote Eylandt, a remote indigenous community in the Northern Territory.
